1)what is react??
It is an opensource javascript library
React is building user interfaces
React create a spa by using reusable components

2)react feature??
virtual dom
component based architecture
reusibility and composition
jsx(javascript xml)
declative syntax
community and ecosystem
react hooks

3)what is dom?? what is differnce b/w html and dom??
it represent the webpage as a treelike structure which allow javascript to dynamicallly access and manupalate the content and structure of webpage  

4)differnce b/w Dom and virtual dom??
Real Dom:-
it is actual representation of dom
After any changes dom is re-render
it has less performance 
it less faster as compared to virtual dom 

Virtual Dom:-
it is a light weight copy of dom
it is  used in react
it redender the change part not complete ui
it has more performance 
it is faster

5)whatis reconcilation ??
the process for virtual dom to real dom
it done by react library

6)what are the react components??
a component is reusable building block for creating user interface 

7)what is spa??
it has only one page.
whenver we do any action on the website then response content dynamically updated without refreshing orloading a new webpage

8)what is the 5 advantage of react??
1)it create a reusable uicomponent
2)it is single page application
3)it is cross platform and open source
4)itis lightweight and very fast(virtual dom)
5)it has very large community and ecosystem
6)Tesing is easy 

9)what is the disadvantage of react??
it is not good chice for small application
it is not good choice for static application

10)what is the role of jsx in react??
jsx is javascript xml 
jsx is used to write a html like code
jsx is convert javascript tools like babel
Because Browser understand javasscript not jsx

11)differnce b/w declaritive and imperitive syntax??
declaritive:-
it focus on desired result with specifying the step by step process
jsx in react is used to write declaritive syntax

imperitive:-
step by step process to achieve a particular goal
javascript has imperitive syntax

