1)What is Provider Component? How components getting the state from Redux store?
❖ Provider component of react-redux will make the Redux store available to all connected components.

2)What is the role of Connect function in React-Redux?
❖ The connect function is used to make the connection between a React component and
the Redux store.

3)What are the 4 Important Files in React-Redux project?
❖ Important File for Redux Implementation:
1. actions.js: Defines action creators.
2. reducer.js: Update the state based on the action and
previous state received from the store.
3. store.js: Stores the updated state received from
reducer and export it to the components.
4. CounterComponent.js: React component connected
to Redux, uses state and actions to render UI and
handle user interactions.


4)How to structure the project and maintain state in multiple components?
5)Explain the concept of immutability in the context of Redux?
❖ In Redux, immutability is the principle that once an object (such as the state which is readonly) is created, it cannot bechanged or modified directly.
❖ To make changes to the state, you need to dispatch an action.

6)Which are the typical properties of an Action object in React-Redux project?
❖ 2 Typical properties in most of the React-Redux project:
1. Type: Type describes the type of action being performed.
2. Payload: Carries data from mostly from external API’s.

7)Difference btw mapDispatchToProps & mapStateToProps in the connect?
❖ mapDispatchToProps() function dispatches action to the store to update the state using a
reducer.
❖ mapStateToProps() function gets the state for the component from Redux store.

8)What is the meaning of Unidirectional Data Flow in Redux?
❖ In a unidirectional data flow architecture, data follows a single, clear path.
❖ Redux enforces this pattern to provide a predictable state management mechanism. 

9)How does Redux handle communication between components?
❖ Redux handles communication between
components through a centralized state
management system(store).

10)What is Payload property in Redux?
❖ Along with the action type, payload property in Redux actions holds the data being sent to the reducer.
❖ Payload contains information necessary for the reducer to update the state based on the action. 
